UUSTAT(1P)                 POSIX Programmer's Manual                UUSTAT(1P)



PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       uustat - uucp status inquiry and job control

SYNOPSIS
       uustat [ -q| -k jobid| -r jobid]

       uustat [-s system][-u user]


DESCRIPTION
       The uustat utility shall display the status of, or  cancel,  previously
       specified  uucp requests, or provide general status on uucp connections
       to other systems.

       When no options are given, uustat shall write to  standard  output  the
       status of all uucp requests issued by the current user.

       Typical  implementations  of this utility require a communications line
       configured to use the Base Definitions volume of  IEEE Std 1003.1-2001,
       Chapter  11, General Terminal Interface, but other communications means
       may be used. On systems where there  are  no  available  communications
       means  (either temporarily or permanently), this utility shall write an
       error message describing the problem and exit with a non-zero exit sta‐
       tus.

OPTIONS
       The  uustat  utility  shall  conform  to the Base Definitions volume of
       IEEE Std 1003.1-2001, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines.

       The following options shall be supported:

       -q     Write the jobs queued for each machine.

       -k  jobid
              Kill the uucp request whose job identification  is  jobid.   The
              application shall ensure that the killed uucp request belongs to
              the person invoking uustat  unless  that  user  has  appropriate
              privileges.

       -r  jobid
              Rejuvenate jobid. The files associated with jobid are touched so
              that their modification time is set to the  current  time.  This
              prevents  the  cleanup  program  from deleting the job until the
              jobs modification time reaches the limit imposed by the program.

       -s  system
              Write the status of all uucp requests for remote system system.

       -u  user
              Write the status of all uucp requests issued by user.


OPERANDS
       None.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of  uus‐
       tat:

       LANG   Provide  a  default value for the internationalization variables
              that are unset or null. (See  the  Base  Definitions  volume  of
              IEEE Std 1003.1-2001,  Section  8.2,  Internationalization Vari‐
              ables for the precedence of internationalization variables  used
              to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL If  set  to a non-empty string value, override the values of all
              the other internationalization variables.

       LC_CTYPE
              Determine the locale for  the  interpretation  of  sequences  of
              bytes  of  text  data as characters (for example, single-byte as
              opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
              Determine the locale that should be used to  affect  the  format
              and  contents  of diagnostic messages written to standard error,
              and informative messages written to standard output.

       NLSPATH
              Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of
              LC_MESSAGES .


ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       The  standard  output  shall  consist  of  information  about  each job
       selected, in an unspecified format. The information  shall  include  at
       least the job ID, the user ID or name, and the remote system name.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0     Successful completion.

       >0     An error occurred.


CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       uucp

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
       from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2003 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
       --  Portable  Operating  System  Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
       Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2003  by  the  Institute  of
       Electrical  and  Electronics  Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The  Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
       is the referee document. The original Standard can be  obtained  online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .



IEEE/The Open Group                  2003                           UUSTAT(1P)
